README.md, before:

# 🛡️ CLOUD-SENTRY // Autonomous AI Threat Intelligence

**CLOUD-SENTRY** is a high-performance, real-time security monitoring dashboard designed to intercept and visualize live cloud attack vectors. By leveraging a serverless event-driven architecture, it transforms raw logs into an immersive, cyberpunk-inspired intelligence feed with sub-second latency.

---

## ⚡ The Core Innovation

Most security dashboards rely on **Polling** (manually requesting updates). **CLOUD-SENTRY** implements a **Push-Architecture**:

* **Zero-Polling:** Sub-second data propagation via **GraphQL Subscriptions** (WebSockets).
* **AI-in-the-Loop:** Every threat is analyzed by **Amazon Bedrock (Claude 3)** before hitting the UI.
* **Cyberpunk UX:** A high-fidelity React interface designed for low-latency SOC environments.

---

## 🏗️ System Architecture & Logic

This project utilizes a modern **Event-Driven Architecture (EDA)**. The goal was to create a "Live-Wire" system where the backend pushes data to the UI the millisecond it is processed.

### 📊 Intelligence Pipeline



```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Attack Simulator] -->|1. Ingest| B[(DynamoDB)]
    B -->|2. Stream| C[AI Analyzer]
    C -->|3. Neural Synthesis| D[Amazon Bedrock]
    D -->|4. Update| B
    B -->|5. Stream Update| E[Broadcaster]
    E -->|6. Sign & Publish| F[AWS AppSync]
    F -->|7. Live Stream| G[React Dashboard]

    subgraph "AI Enrichment Layer"
    C
    D
    end

    subgraph "Real-Time Broadcast"
    E
    F
    end
```

### 🧠 Architectural Breakdown

* **Ingestion (DynamoDB):** Attack data is ingested into a NoSQL table. I chose DynamoDB for its predictable sub-10ms performance and its native ability to trigger downstream events.
* **Neural Analysis (AWS Lambda & Amazon Bedrock):** * Triggers automatically on DynamoDB `INSERT` events.
    * Leverages **Claude 3 Haiku** to interpret raw attack signatures (SQLi, Brute Force, etc.).
    * Returns structured JSON containing a technical **Summary** and **Actionable Countermeasure**.
* **The "Broadcaster" (AWS Lambda):** * Acts as a security-hardened client using **AWS SigV4 signing**.
    * Maps DynamoDB `NewImage` data types to GraphQL variables.
    * Hydrates the UI with the final analyzed payload.
* **Real-Time Broadcast (AWS AppSync):** * Manages **WebSocket** connections for all connected clients.
    * Broadcasts threat data instantly to the dashboard the moment the Broadcaster publishes an update.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

* **Frontend:** React 18, Tailwind CSS, Apollo Client (GraphQL)
* **Compute:** AWS Lambda (Python 3.12)
* **Intelligence:** Amazon Bedrock (Anthropic Claude 3 Haiku)
* **Database:** Amazon DynamoDB (NoSQL + Streams)
* **API/Real-time:** AWS AppSync (GraphQL Subscriptions)
* **Security:** AWS IAM with SigV4 Authentication

---

## 🚀 Deployment Highlights

* **Modular React Design:** Decoupled components with memoized AI-JSON parsing for peak performance.
* **Cyberpunk Aesthetics:** Custom Tailwind animations, scanline overlays, and neon-themed state management.
* **Fault Tolerance:** Structured logging via AWS CloudWatch and robust error handling for AI API timeouts.

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Note on Data Latency:**
> To optimize AWS costs, the **Attack Simulator** is scheduled to run at specific intervals rather than constantly. Upon first loading the dashboard, it may take **up to 60 seconds** for the first threat to appear. This delay is due to Lambda **"Cold Starts"** and the warm-up time required for the event-driven pipeline. Once the initial trigger occurs, data will flow in real-time via WebSockets.

Commit message:

Update note on data latency and system availability

README.md, after:

# 🛡️ CLOUD-SENTRY // Autonomous AI Threat Intelligence

**CLOUD-SENTRY** is a high-performance, real-time security monitoring dashboard designed to intercept and visualize live cloud attack vectors. By leveraging a serverless event-driven architecture, it transforms raw logs into an immersive, cyberpunk-inspired intelligence feed with sub-second latency.

---

## ⚡ The Core Innovation

Most security dashboards rely on **Polling** (manually requesting updates). **CLOUD-SENTRY** implements a **Push-Architecture**:

* **Zero-Polling:** Sub-second data propagation via **GraphQL Subscriptions** (WebSockets).
* **AI-in-the-Loop:** Every threat is analyzed by **Amazon Bedrock (Claude 3)** before hitting the UI.
* **Cyberpunk UX:** A high-fidelity React interface designed for low-latency SOC environments.

---

## 🏗️ System Architecture & Logic

This project utilizes a modern **Event-Driven Architecture (EDA)**. The goal was to create a "Live-Wire" system where the backend pushes data to the UI the millisecond it is processed.

### 📊 Intelligence Pipeline



```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Attack Simulator] -->|1. Ingest| B[(DynamoDB)]
    B -->|2. Stream| C[AI Analyzer]
    C -->|3. Neural Synthesis| D[Amazon Bedrock]
    D -->|4. Update| B
    B -->|5. Stream Update| E[Broadcaster]
    E -->|6. Sign & Publish| F[AWS AppSync]
    F -->|7. Live Stream| G[React Dashboard]

    subgraph "AI Enrichment Layer"
    C
    D
    end

    subgraph "Real-Time Broadcast"
    E
    F
    end
```

### 🧠 Architectural Breakdown

* **Ingestion (DynamoDB):** Attack data is ingested into a NoSQL table. I chose DynamoDB for its predictable sub-10ms performance and its native ability to trigger downstream events.
* **Neural Analysis (AWS Lambda & Amazon Bedrock):** * Triggers automatically on DynamoDB `INSERT` events.
    * Leverages **Claude 3 Haiku** to interpret raw attack signatures (SQLi, Brute Force, etc.).
    * Returns structured JSON containing a technical **Summary** and **Actionable Countermeasure**.
* **The "Broadcaster" (AWS Lambda):** * Acts as a security-hardened client using **AWS SigV4 signing**.
    * Maps DynamoDB `NewImage` data types to GraphQL variables.
    * Hydrates the UI with the final analyzed payload.
* **Real-Time Broadcast (AWS AppSync):** * Manages **WebSocket** connections for all connected clients.
    * Broadcasts threat data instantly to the dashboard the moment the Broadcaster publishes an update.

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

* **Frontend:** React 18, Tailwind CSS, Apollo Client (GraphQL)
* **Compute:** AWS Lambda (Python 3.12)
* **Intelligence:** Amazon Bedrock (Anthropic Claude 3 Haiku)
* **Database:** Amazon DynamoDB (NoSQL + Streams)
* **API/Real-time:** AWS AppSync (GraphQL Subscriptions)
* **Security:** AWS IAM with SigV4 Authentication

---

## 🚀 Deployment Highlights

* **Modular React Design:** Decoupled components with memoized AI-JSON parsing for peak performance.
* **Cyberpunk Aesthetics:** Custom Tailwind animations, scanline overlays, and neon-themed state management.
* **Fault Tolerance:** Structured logging via AWS CloudWatch and robust error handling for AI API timeouts.

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **System Availability & Optimization:**
> To optimize cloud resource consumption, the **Attack Simulator** is programmed to execute on a **60-minute interval**. If the dashboard is accessed outside of this window, the threat feed will remain idle. Upon the start of a new cycle, please allow for a brief initialization period as the serverless pipeline activates. Once triggered, all data transitions to real-time delivery via WebSockets.
